🔗 URL: https://www.news18.com/business/selling-pens-to-building-su-kam-how-kunwer-sachdev-transformed-the-power-sector-8660476.html

The introduction of electricity transformed the way our lives for decades, but the growing numbers of shortages and their lengthening frequency made the power backup industry necessary. Su-Kam founder Kunwer Sachdev is the face of the power backup sector in India. The company is one of the most rapidly growing and progressive businesses in the country. Sachdev has been an inspiration to many who have proven that dreams do come true if we put in our dedication and hard work with the right energy.
Kunwer Sachdev was raised in the family of a railway clerk in Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh neighbourhood while dreaming of starting his own company one day.
Following his graduation in 1984, he started working in his brother’s pen business. Due to continuous power outrage, he quickly understood that there was a huge potential in the field of power backup. With the challenges of a severe power deficit, he decided to shut down his cable TV business and start Su-Kam in 1998.
Kunwer had a difficult time bringing investment for his business but it surprised him when clients returned his first 100 inverters due to some issues. He then improved them and made them better than the ones available in the market. After much research, he approached dealers and wholesalers. Even though the market was already crowded with various brands Su-kam’s inverters were unmatched in terms of price and quality.
Su-Kam became the first company in the power industry which initiated exporting its products to the international markets.
He envisioned a Make in India campaign and his company to make a distinguished mark in the global market. He has also captured the markets in the Middle East, Bangladesh, Africa and Nepal where his products were valued for their quality and reliability.
Swipe Left For Next Video
Kunwer expanded Su-Kam and made the brand widely known for its proficiency in the solar energy industry. However, due to a series of unfortunate circumstances, Su-Kam went into bankruptcy. Its assets were also frozen. All the services were closed instantly. Due to this, dealers, distributors and customers suffered due to lack of services.
After so many hurdles, his wife Khushboo Sachdev, came forward to help give services to the customers.  Khushboo Sachdev started a new venture Su-vastika under the mentorship of Kunwer Sachdev with the help of her friends and distributors. The company has been able to give several services to dealers, distributors and customers. Now, the company will be filing for over 60 patents with 6 under their name.
Latest Blogs