🔗 URL: https://www.saurenergy.com/tag/kunwer-sachdev

Home»Kunwer Sachdev
By Kunwer Sachdev With the immediate and critical need to move to alternative sources of energy worldwide, battery technology is being explored massively. As an alternative, it can support the de-carbonization of the transportation sector. It can evolve from the current lithium-ion battery to the succeeding generation to all-solid-state batteries. It will bring an improved […]
By Kunwer Sachdev India’s interest in adopting clean mobility is now firm and clear. The government of India has taken steps towards encouraging an EV ecosystem in the country through the FAME policies, reduction of GST on EVs, and most recently, the Production Linked Incentives. The idea is to create an economic environment for EV […]
During Intersolar 2017 meet in Mumbai, Su-Kam showcased its products that are designed to make life of customers comfortable and hassle-free, and have potential to reduce the country’s carbon footprint. Su-Kam Power Systems Ltd, one of India’s leading companies in power-backup and solar solutions showcased its state-of-the-art range of products at Intersolar 2017 India meet […]
The solar industry is churning new dialogues to woo clean energy and become self-reliant for all the modern power needs. When modules gets nodal nudge the billion-dollar market influxes with a proficient game-plan. Climate change concerns, state initiatives including solar portfolio standards, and consumer efforts are resulting in increased deployments of clean technologies. Solar photovoltaics […]
Recently, Su-Kam released a documentary, highlighting the enormous work-embraced to solarize the remote villages of the nation. The company is altering the lives of numerous numbers of people in the remote towns of the nation by leveraging power through solar energy. The future of many people living in countryside areas, for example Patewara in Uttar […]
We are India's leading B2B media house, reporting full-time on solar energy, wind, battery storage, solar inverters, and electric vehicle (EV) charging. Our dedicated news portal, monthly magazine, and multimedia products increase our coverage to cater to the different demands of the renewable industry.
To get in touch, contact us atinfo[at]saurenergy.com
Or Call at 9891147599 / 8802315631
Never miss the most relevant stories in the solar and renewable sector everyday.
We've got you covered, if you are social!  Follow @SaurEnergyfor the latest news and happenings across these  social media
Subscribe to our newsletter to get the latest scoop right into your inbox.