🔗 URL: https://www.casemine.com/judgement/in/5e722f2a894ef211a0955397

Alert
How is this helpful for me?
Know more
CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT
CC/91/2018
CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT
The case of the complainant, in brief, is that she got installed a 2KVA solar system for domestic use from OP after spending a sum of Rs.2.5 lakhs approximately. It has been alleged that at the time of installation, the OP gave assurance regarding the superiority of their product and promise of best after sales service support. (2 years warranty of replaced PCU w.e.f. 10-March- 2017 in warranty FSR attached for dated 08-Feb-2018 and 25 years warranty of PV solar modules). It has been alleged that to have a working efficient/ seamless Solar system with the existing electrical connection system, she gave entire involved products order to Su-Kam power system Ltd. cost to her on purchase  of complete set of Su-Kam Solar system is as below: - Cost of PCU (Advanced Solar Inverter) = 36,500 INR Cost of Panels (8 Nos) = 1,04,000 INR Cost of batteries 50,000 INR Cost of Structure = 40,000 INR Cost of Installation = 5,000 INR (Above all, Taxes Extra) Total Rs. 2,35,500 INR + Taxes as shown in Annexure-1. It has been alleged that the solar system purchased was with top end model, this being new technology we had no knowledge about product & it's working. M/s Su-Kam approached us through their authorized channel partner and assured about best product, best technology, best services and mentioned that Government of Haryana and Ministry of Renewable Energy (MNRE), Govt. of India have approved their product. It has been alleged that she is a Senior Citizen 66 year, suffering with the problem of sleep Apnea and uses a machine for breathing many a times in a day, which need uninterrupted electric supply and on the assurance of OP, who advertise on television and whose representative Mr. Ashok Kumar explain it to be best product, we got installed the system. It has been alleged that just after the installation of the said machine, she started facing problems like PCU output voltage fluctuations, high input current charging and after approaching to the OP, they were told that these are initial problems as happen with every new installation and would get settled soon. It has been alleged that within a period of 2-3 months, system started giving technical troubles and faults including cracks in solar panels (4 Nos.) which was accepted by Su-Kam stakeholders on quality & replaced. It has been alleged that PCU started malfunctioning and controlling cards going faulty. The complainant complained to customer service, and untrained staff of the OP  had bugged up the system which has led to damaged batteries (at the verge of blast due to high heat), higher input current draw leading to caught fire in wires, plugs, tops, MCBs & joints of connecting main Grid lines. It has been alleged that all the complaints lodged to their management/ customer care teams and many times all customer services calls were closed without any site visit and was notified falsely as closed and this was informed to Su-Kam regional Service manager many a times over a call. It has been alleged that the faulty designed system has led to higher drawn current and gave her huge financial loss as electrical bill & increased many folds as before installing the Su-Kam Solar system, average bimonthly bill was average 7000 INR, where-in post installation of faulty Su-Kam system has led to bimonthly bill value of more than 40,000 INR as shown in Annexure-3. It has been alleged that the reason of fire in wire & electric circuit & battery heat could not be resolved, which give her worries all the time. It has been alleged that on repeated complain the replaced PCU with revised Warranty date (w.e.f. March 2017 for 2 years) is also sent of poor quality and in tempered state and not functioning properly even as normal inverter supply. It has been alleged that in absence of running of breathing machine sometimes they made alternate arrangement for running of breathing machine and sometimes, she had to sleep without machine in operation-which was always a worry as no power backup (2KVA) was available. It has been alleged that this was happening as system is not well designed and not working as per normal PCU behavior & as per promises made/advertised. It has been alleged that all problems and complaints were reported at all management level of Su-Kam through emails & India Post etc. It has been alleged that we even complained to  the Managing Director (MD) of Su-Kam who deliberately ignored her and has put her in big financial loss, mental harassment & family life at risk. It has been alleged that the system is not working properly for many months and on dead position most of the time and it is found that there is fire in PCU at input of current due to consistent fault, which has burnt the MCB, Sockets, Wires & Battery heating resulting into life risk all the time ONLY due to faulty Solar system installed at my home by Su-Kam. It has been alleged that multiple photos of fire burst & installation quality have been sent to Su-Kam but to no avail. Thereafter, the complainant requested the OP several times and complained to several departments but no solution was made by any of them. On the aforesaid allegations, the complainant has prayed before this Forum that a direction may please be given to the opposite party to take back their complete set of faulty Solar system (PCU Inverter, 8 panels and 4 batteries) 8& repay her old aged fund which will help me in leading calm life at this age of her life, to repay the interest charges on complete Bill value @18% and for each month on pro-rata basis if the year is not complete. Further to pay Rs. 5,00,000/- (Rs. 5 Lakhs only) towards mental harassment, agony, living life under perpetual dangerous situation, depression, financial losses due to multiple repairs of cables / existing electrical system & life threat of family at house and litigation charges has also been prayed for.
2. After registration and admission of the complaint, notice was issued to the opposite party and the opposite party appeared through its representative and filed its written statement wherein it has been contended that  the present complaint of complainant does not fall within the purview ofConsumer Protection Act, 1986because the opposite party have not committed any deficiency in service as per the provisions of the said Act, hence the complaint is liable to be dismissed with heavy costs. It has been contended that the present complaint is also not maintainable and tenable as per theprovision of the Consumer Protection Actand by this present false and frivolous complaint; complainant is trying to extort money from the answering opposite party and to waste the valuable time of this Hon'ble Forum. It has been contended that the answering opposite party is a reputed manufacturer and dealer of Su-Kam brand batteries/inverters/Solar and the batteries/inverters/Solar manufactured by the opposite party is of international quality and passed through stringent quality test before removal from its manufacturing unit to be distributed and sold in the market. It has been further contended that every complaint has to be made on customer care numbers of the opposite party, which had been provided on the product itself as well as being advertised in large scale. Each time a complaint is lodged the system of the answering opposite party generates a complaint number which is the proof of complaint being made to the opposite party. It has been contended that as per record the complainant lodged complaints on 25/01/2017,10/03/2017 and 18/02/2018 and after receiving complaints each and every time service engineer of answering opposite party visited at site of complainant and resolved the problem. It is pertinent to mention that as per customer satisfaction the answering opposite party replaced 4 batteries on 25.01.2017, replaced PCU on 11.03.2017 and also replaced PCB card on 18.02.2018. It has been further contended that the Senior engineer of  R & D department of answering opposite party also visited at premises of complainant and analyzed the problem for a few days, after that they took the systems back to R & D and fixed the observed issue of the Solar Charge Controller working intermittently because of that Solar Power was not getting generated. After fixing they tested the system in R&D and it was working fine, then we sent the system back to the complainant premises, for periodic observation they also installed one GSM based remote monitoring solution to monitor the data of the Solar PCU and see the performance. They captured the data for some time, after some days the data stopped coming so they again visited the complainant site to check if the monitoring system was working or not, but the complainant refused to cooperate to checked the issue with the monitoring systems. They observed that the monitoring system was removed from the system. It has been contended that the Solar PCU was working as per specification of the product but the complainant expectation is different from the installed system specification states and it requires carefully designed to achieve that. R&D team of answering opposite party offered to help complainant to design as per her requirement (Solar Panel Capacity required. Solar PCU rating, Battery capacity etc.) but the complainant has refused and filed this false and frivolous complaint. It is also pertinent to mention that the system installed in premises of complainant working properly as per its specification and is still working properly as per Field Service Report dated 18.02.2018. All other facts have been denied as false and frivolous. However, later on, he opted to remain exparte.
3. We have heard the authorised representative of the complainant and perused the record available on file.
4. Therefore, from the facts and circumstances of the case, evidence on the file and the arguments advanced by the authorised representative of the complainant, it emerges that the complainant has filed the present complaint against the OP alleging deficiency in service on the part of the OP on the ground that the complainant has purchased a 2KVA solar system from OP after spending a sum of Rs.2.5 lakhs. As per pleadings of the complainant, since after installation of the solar system, she started facing problems like PCU output voltage fluctuations, high input current charging and after approaching to the OP, they were told that these are initial problems as happen with every new installation and would get settled soon. But as per the complainant, after 2-3 months, system started again giving technical troubles and faults including cracks in solar panels which was accepted by Su-Kam stakeholders on quality & replaced. From the evidence, it is on the file that a 2KVA solar system purchased by the complainant got defective and it repaired every time as and when the complainant approached to the opposite party.
Edit Citation
Get 1 point on providing a valid sentiment to this
							Citation.
Get 2 points on providing a valid reason for the above
							change.
Add Equivalent Citation
Get 1 point on adding a valid citation to this judgment.
CiteTEXT
Select Preference
Share the Judgment
How is this helpful for me?
Are you sure?
By clicking on this tab, you are expressly stating that you were one of the advocates appearing in this matter.Before confirming, please ensure that you have thoroughly read and verified the judgment. In case of any confusion, feel free to reach out to us.Leave your message here.
Are you sure?
Click here to remove this judgment from your profile.
Report a problem
Alert
© 2023 Gauge Data Solutions Pvt. Ltd. 
						
						|Terms
Summary
Alert