🔗 URL: https://aboutkunwersachdev.wordpress.com/

Founder & CEO of Su-Kam Power Systems
February 11, 2015 6:12 am/2 Commentson “Make in India” to reduce India’s electronics import bill
Make in Indiais the biggest initiative launched by our Prime Minister to attract investors to our country and to encourage them to manufacture in India. This one campaign will provide the much needed boost to India’s economy by creating jobs, making India a self reliant economy and getting the country its rightful place under the sun. The Prime Minister has also set very high targets for the focus sectors.
MrKunwer Sachdeva, Managing Director Su-Kam Power Systems, while speaking to a team fromIndia Infoline(IIFL) lauded the Prime Minister’s initiative, especially in the Solar Sector. Under the National Solar Mission, the Prime Minister has enhanced the goal from 20 GW of solar energy by 2020 to 100 GW, a huge step. Mr Sachdev believes that this target though achievable would require a slew of investors, manufacturers, and other involvement of many stakeholders.
The Inverter Man of India is very upbeat about India’s performance based on the steps taken byNarendra Modi. A number of new technologies are being developed in India. Su-Kam well symbolises Make in India – for over 15 years now the company has been innovating and manufacturing in India. The company holds close to 100 design patents in India, USA and other countries, and over 100 technology patents. Today the company files a minimum of 30 patents a year. However, Mr Sachdeva believes that the Patent granting system in the country leaves a lot to be desired. The patents that Su-Kam has filed for over six years ago are yet to be granted. In today’s dynamic world technology changes very fast and some of these have already become obsolete.
This needs to be fixed very quickly. Having said that there is no doubt that the Make in India initiative will ensure that a large number of companies start manufacturing in India, thus generating employment and improving the standard of living in the country.
Mr Sachdeva also believes that this initiative can have a major impact at India’s macro-economic picture. For instance, if we were to only focus on the electronics industry, there is much that can be achieved. According to industry experts, India’s electronic imports may surpass its oil import bill by 2030. Keeping the current oil prices in view, this aim may also be achieved by 2025. Currently the annual imports stand at over USD 35 billion!
Firm laws and a fast paced administrative machinery are critical to the success of the Make in India campaign, said Mr Kunwer Sachdev while speaking to the IIFL team.
January 12, 2015 6:00 am/16 Commentson Inverter Man of India – Always a Step Ahead!
Mr Kunwer Sachdev has been aptly given the title of the “Inverter Man of India”. Frustrated over a malfunctioning inverter at his house he opened the inverter and studied the reasons for its continuous failure. Little did he know then that he was taking the first step toward revolutionising an industry that was highly unorganised.
When he opened that inverter,Kunwer Sachdevaalso did not realise that with that one action he was about to script his life’s story of rags to riches. Mr Sachdev hails from a very humble background and spent his early career selling pens. He faced numerous challenges at every step, however he never deterred, building his company from strength to strength. He always searched for an opportunity when faced with a problem, rather than giving up he tried to find a solution and move ahead.
ThoughKunwer Sachdevhad no formal training in electronics or an engineering degree, he built a power backup solutions company known globally for products backed by world class technology. Mr Sachdeva’s vision, entrepreneurial capability and determination led him to build Su-Kam into a Superbrand.
An innovation driven company, Su-Kam is always a step ahead of the industry.Kunwer Sachdeva, who built Su-Kam into a Rs 1000 crore plus company realised early on that Solar is the answer to India’s growing power needs. Su-Kam has a very strong R&D which is constantly working on developing innovative solar solutions. That day is perhaps not far when the Inverter Man of India will get renamed as the Solar Man of India.
November 28, 2014 11:08 am/27 Commentson The Inverter Man of India runs the Airtel Half Marathon
Mr Kunwer Sachdev, also known as the Inverter Man of India, ran the Airtel Half Marathon on November 23, 2014 in Delhi. Achieving a time of 2hrs 21 mins, he ran 21 kms. Mr Sachdev is an avid sports person and a swimmer. He found the time to run the marathon despite his busy schedule, as he was determined to do so this year.Mr Kunwer Sachdeva believes in the saying “”Finishing a marathon is a state of mind that says ANYTHING IS POSSIBLE”. Running the marathon has been just that for him – breaking a mental barrier that it is difficult to run 21 kms at a stretch.
Mr Kunwer Sachdeva has lived his life by the saying “Anything is Possible” – overcoming challenges and proving it right over and over again. Coming from a very humble background, Mr Kunwer Sachdeva has built a Rs. 1200 crore company. Though academically he is not a technical person, he is credited with transforming the inverter industry from a non-technical industry into a highly technologically advanced industry!
Even after running the half marathon, Mr Sachdeva’s batteries were as charged as those manufactured by his company. Ask him where he gets this energy from, and he says it is his determination and grit to achieve the impossible and break barriers that drive him. This is why he emerges victorious over and over again.
June 9, 2014 7:01 am/Leave a comment
IndiaMART & ET NOW joined hands to present ‘IndiaMART Leaders of Tomorrow Awards’ to recognise the contribution of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in driving India’s march to global stardom. The mission of the awards was to acknowledge the importance of SMEs in increasing trade, generating employment & creating new entrepreneurs in India,along with a commitment to develop a strong SME eco-system.
India mart & ET Now invites Mr. Kunwer Sachdev
The finale of the award ceremony was organized in The Oberoi, New Delhi, and the chief guest being Mr. K. V. Kamath, non-executive chairman ICICI BANK.
Mr. Kunwer Sachdevwas invited as a special guest since he in the earlier years had been a part of the SME’s and successfully led Su-Kam out of the category into large scale eneterprises. Mr.Kunwer Sachdev gave away the awards along with Mr. K.V. Kamath to encourage and felicitate the winners.
May 21, 2014 6:40 am/5 Commentson Kunwer Sachdeva
Founder & MD of Su-Kam Power Systems
Kunwar Sachdeva, the Founder and MD of Su-Kam, is popularly known as the inverter man of India who revolutionized the inverter industry. A DU law graduate determined to bring about new technology and innovation to the inverter industry in India and to organize the same; he sowed the seeds of Su-Kam and created a new breed of problem-free inverters calledSu-Kam.
Kunwer Sachdeva started his journey to success quite early in life. He started out as a cable TV operator and went on to dealing in power inverters. Su-Kam is currently the best and number one inverter company in India. The Top power saving Inverter Company whichKunwer sachdevstarted in 1992 with a meagre amount of Rs 10000 is currently enjoying a turnover of over Rs 650 crores.
Kunwar Sachdev’s journey to success and his rags to riches story is something out of a dream book for any aspiring entrepreneur. His thirst to innovate and bring about newer technologies and solutions in the power back up industry, led him to lay the foundation stone of inverter majorSu-Kamwhich has grown by leaps and bounds over the years. A man who was a born leader,Kunwer Sachdevaapplied his brilliant mind and gave India and over 70 countries abroad a great power saving answer and rid them of all their power woes.
Su-Kam which provides power solutions to homes, industries, commercial establishments, schools, govt. bodies, defense, hospitals etc. has enabled these bodies to bring down their electricity consumption drastically. Now through the use of Su-Kam solar inverters in their power back up solutions, the electricity costs of the users have gone down considerably.
Make in India is the biggest initiative launched by our Prime Minister to attract investors to our country and to encourage them to manufacture in…
Mr Kunwer Sachdev has been aptly given the title of the “Inverter Man of India”. Frustrated over a malfunctioning inverter at his house he…
Mr Kunwer Sachdev, also known as the Inverter Man of India, ran the Airtel Half Marathon on November 23, 2014 in Delhi. Achieving a time…
IndiaMART & ET NOW joined hands to present ‘IndiaMART Leaders of Tomorrow Awards’ to recognise the contribution of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in…
Blog at WordPress.com.