🔗 URL: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/159964184/

Take notes as you read a judgment using ourVirtual Legal Assistantand get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (Query Alert Service). Try out ourPremium Member Services--Sign up todayand get free trial for one month.
MANMOHAN, J:
It is pertinent to mention that the present suit has been filed for
declaration, permanent injunction, damages and incidental relief(s).
2.    During the pendency of the suit, a Liquidator had been
appointed who has adopted the pleadings, averments and arguments
advanced by the resolution professional.
ARGUMENTS ON BEHALF OF PLAINTIFF
3.    Mr. Amit Sibal, learned senior counsel for the plaintiff stated
that the present suit was liable to be decreed summarily as the
defendant no. 1 had no real prospect of defending its claim and the
defendant no. 1‟s defence was an abuse of the process of law.
4.    Learned senior counsel for the plaintiff submitted that the
defendant No.1 had made numerous admissions that the plaintiff was
the rightful owner, proprietor and user of the Su-Kam Marks in respect
of goods covered under Class 9 of theTrade Marks Act, 1999and
such admissions supersede any and all issues, including those disputed
by the defendants. He pointed out the following instances wherein the
defendant No.1 had represented the plaintiff to be the owner of the Su-
Kam Marks:-
5.    Learned senior counsel for the plaintiff stated that the defendant
no.1, by his representations/acts/admissions, had intentionally caused
others, including the plaintiff, to believe that the plaintiff was the
rightful owner of the „Su-Kam‟ marks in Class 9 of theTrade Marks
Act, 1999and was now estopped from denying the said truth or
pleading to the contrary.In support of his submission, he relied on the
Supreme Court judgment inJai Narain Parasrampuria (Dead) and
Others Vs. Pushpa Devi Saraf and Others, (2006) 7 SCC 756
wherein it has been held as under:-
but it is another thing to say that a person is estopped from
     raising a question of title. The provisions of theEvidence
     Actare clear likeSection 116, whereby in a certain
     situation a person may be estopped from pleading a title in
     himself.
xxxx          xxxx          xxxx        xxxx
36. In the instant case, it was Sarafs who represented the
     Company. They had made the representation that the
     Company was the owner of the property. Such a
     representation had been made to the appellant herein not
     only in terms of the decree obtained in the said OS No. 267
     of 1980, but by reason of execution of the other documents
     including creation of mortgage of the property and
     discharge thereof in favour of State Bank of India. If by
     reason of such representation, a third party alters hisCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                          Page 4 of 77position, indisputably, the principle of estoppel would apply.
     We may, however, hasten to add that where there exists a
     statutory embargo, vesting of title in a person shall be
     subject thereto. We have, however, in this case, no doubt
     whatsoever that there did not exist any statutory embargo in
     this behalf.‖
6.     Learned senior counsel for the plaintiff emphasized that
defendant no.1 had not come to this Court with clean hands, had made
gross misrepresentations and had taken contradictory stands on
various occasions. He pointed out the following instances which
according to him disentitled the defendant no.1 from seeking a trial in
the suit:-
7.    Per contra, Mr. Rajeev Virmani, learned senior counsel for
defendant no. 1 contended that oral evidence was required to be led in
the present suit as the plaint alleged that the Deed of Assignment dated
16th March, 2006 as well as the Trade Mark Licence Agreement dated
7th July, 1995 (hereinafter referred to as 'TMLA') were questionable
and sought declarations that the Deed of Assignment was fabricated
and the TMLA had stood terminated respectively.
8.    He also pointed out that though the plaint averred that the
Business Transfer Agreement dated 16th September, 1999 (for short
"BT Agreement") and the Minutes of the Meeting dated 20th March,
2006 (for short "Minutes") were fabricated, yet no relief had been
claimed qua the said BT Agreement and Minutes.
9.     He emphasised that while the plaintiff had filed an expert
forensic report in support of some of its allegations, the defendant no.1
had also filed contrary forensic reports to deny any allegation of
fabrication. He contended that the defendant no.1 had denied all
allegations   of     documents   being    fabricated   or   questionable.
Consequently, according to Mr. Virmani, the issue that would arise in
the matter is whether the impugned documents were fabricated or
questionable or authentic. He submitted that where contentious issues
of fraud and fabrication arise, a suit cannot be decided summarily and
without oral evidence.In support of his submission, he relied upon a
judgment of the Supreme Court inState Bank of Saurashtra vs.
Ashit Shipping Services (P) Ltd. & Anr., (2002) 4 SCC 736, wherein
it has been held as under:-
10.    He stated that the plaintiff had no reasonable prospect of
succeeding in its claim as the defendant no. 1 had started using theCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                          Page 7 of 77SU-KAM Mark as its proprietor in 1986. He stated that the defendant
no.1 had coined and adopted the trademark Su-Kam in the year 1986
and was the proprietor of the trade mark Su-Kam in all classes, except
for Class 9, under theTrade Marks Act, 1999.
11.   He pointed out that the defendant no. 1, in partnership with his
father, had started the firm Su-Kam Communication Systems on 23rd
April, 1981 and licenced the trade mark SU-KAM to the partnership
firm vide the aforesaid TMLA. He contended that the TMLA was a
valid agreement.
12.   Learned senior counsel for the defendant no.1 stated that the
plaintiff Company was incorporated on 14th October, 1998. He stated
that the BT Agreement was entered between the partnership firm (i.e.
M/s. Su-Kam Communication Systems) and SU-KAM Power Systems
Ltd.(the plaintiff herein), whereby not only did the plaintiff become
the successor in interest of the said partnership firm but also the
trademark licence was transferred to the plaintiff. He stated that the
BT Agreement which was filed with the Registrar of Companies along
with return of allotment in 2002, clearly recorded defendant no.1 to be
the owner of the Su-Kam marks, ―4. The trade mark / Brand Name
―SU-KAM‖ shall remain the property of Mr. Kunwer Deep Sachdeva,
Prop M/s SU-KAM CABLE TV SYSTEMS, New Delhi. The trade mark/
Amount of Royalty for using the brand name SU-KAM shall be
mutually decided between the company and Kunwer Deep Sachdeva
from Year to Year basis.‖ He emphasised that under the BT
Agreement, the plaintiff had acknowledged that the partnership firm
was engaged in the Inverter business. Thus, according to him, theCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                       Page 8 of 77plaintiff being the licencee, could not have proprietary rights in the
SU-KAM trade mark.
13.   He reiterated that though defendant no. 1 had applied for SU-
KAM in class 9 vide the Trade Mark Application No. 821727 on 5th
October, 2008 (i.e. prior to incorporation of plaintiff-company), yet
the trade mark records showed that the said mark had been registered
in the name of the plaintiff, ignoring the claim of defendant no. 1. He
stated that upon discovery of said mistake, the said Deed of
Assignment had been executed by the plaintiff in favour of the
defendant no. 1. He contended that the plaintiff had not provided any
particulars as to how the said Deed of Assignment was fabricated.
14.   He further submitted that an assignment takes effect from the
date of assignment and an assignee acquires title in a trademark
immediately upon execution of the assignment deed. He pointed out
that any follow up actions required to be taken under theTrade Marks
Act, 1999, following the execution of an assignment deed would not
change the title already acquired.In support of his submission, he
relied onSun Pharmaceuticals Industries Limited vs. Cipla Limited,
2009 (108) DRJ 207, wherein it has been held as under:-
15.   Learned senior counsel for the defendant no.1 submitted that
prior to the amendment of theTrade Marks Act, 1999in 2010, in
terms of Section 45(2) of the erstwhileTrade Marks Act, 1999, an
assignment deed could not have been read in evidence in any Court or
tribunal without express directions of the Court or Tribunal. He stated,
however, that this provision stood deleted byThe Trade Marks
Amendment Act, 2010. He submitted that the effect of such deletion is
that a non-recordal of assignment by the assignee makes the
assignment ineffective only against third parties and not against the
assignor itself, who is aware of the existence/execution of the
document.
16.   Learned senior counsel for the defendant no.1 contended that
there had been no abandonment of the trademark Su-Kam by the
defendant no.1. He contended that in terms of Clause 5 of the TMLA,
all use of the trade mark would enure to the benefit of the Licensor,
i.e. defendant no.1.
17.   Learned senior counsel for the defendant no. 1 stated that the
representations to Reliance India Power Fund were dated 27th
February 2006, i.e. prior to execution of Deed of Assignment. In any
event, he stated that at that stage defendant no. 1 and his family ownedCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                         Page 10 of 77the entire shareholding of the plaintiff company and the defendant
no. 1 treated the company as its alter-ego and did not consider the
company to be separate from defendant no.1.
18.   Learned senior counsel for the defendant no. 1 stated that the
defendant no. 1 did not sign the plaint of the infringement suit filed in
2015 by the plaintiff. He pointed out that the plaintiff did not authorise
the person signing the plaint and was unaware of the said suit. He
stated that, in any event, in terms of the TMLA, the plaintiff was
obligated to maintain the licensed trademark, i.e. SU-KAM, including
taking all actions to protect the said trademark. He emphasised that
the plaintiff had instituted the suit in 2015 in discharge of its
obligations under the TMLA.
19.   Learned senior counsel for the defendant no. 1 stated that, the
Ernst and Young Report was based on assertions made by the plaintiff
and as stated in the report no independent trade mark search had been
conducted. He pointed out that the plaintiff had also filed another
valuation report of the trademark Su-Kam by VGrow Advisors Pvt.
Ltd. which specified that the trademark being valued belonged to the
defendant no. 1.
20.   Learned senior counsel for the defendant no. 1 contended that
the question of estoppel in the present suit did not arise as the plaintiff
had acknowledged the defendant no.1 to be the proprietor of the
trademark Su-Kam in the BT Agreement. He contended that the
plaintiff was all along aware of the true facts regarding the defendant
no.1‟s ownership of the Su-Kam marks and there could be no estoppel
where truth is known to both parties. In support of his contention, heCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                           Page 11 of 77relied on Mohori Bibee and Another vs. Dharmodas Ghose, 7 CWN
441, wherein it has been held as under:-
21.   Mr.Amit Sibal, learned senior counsel for the plaintiff handed
over an affidavit dated 02nd May, 2019, whereby the plaintiff gave up
parts of prayer (a) and (b), which were premised on allegations of
fraud and fabrication and prayer (g)       pertaining to damages. The
relevant portion of the affidavit dated 02nd May, 2019, is reproduced
hereinbelow-
―15. I hereby state that in view of the foregoing, the
         Plaintiff is hereby giving up its claims based on fraud
         and fabrication and consequent relief(s) based thereon,
         for the purposes of the Application for Summary
         Judgment underOrder XIIIA of CPC, and is agreeableCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                          Page 12 of 77to lesser prayers being granted on the basis of the
         categorical admissions and holding out by the
         Defendant No.1, inter alia, as to ownership of the SU-
         KAM Marks vesting in the Plaintiff. Therefore, the
         Plaintiff hereby states that it hereby gives up the
         following prayers, which are premised on the
         allegations of fraud and fabrication, as stated
         hereinafter:
16. I am advised that even otherwise the reliance by the
        Defendant No.1 on the Deed of Assignment dated March
        16, 2006 in his defence ought to be rejected in view of the
        fact that the said Deed is invalid and that the Defendant
        No.1 cannot rely upon the same on the grounds that the
        Deed of Assignment has been executed by him in breach
        of his fiduciary duty under law; the holding out by himCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                          Page 13 of 77that the Plaintiff is the sole owner and registered
        proprietor of the SU-KAM Marks and the consequent
        estoppel under law; and his failure to act upon the Deed
        of Assignment for a period of 12 years from the execution
        thereof. I am advised that the said defence can be
        rejected by this Hon'ble Court on the said basis without it
        having to pass an order of declaration. Further, I say that
        insofar as the Trade Mark License Agreement dated July
        7, 1995 is concerned, the Plaintiff is seeking a limited
        relief that the same is not and never was applicable to it.
        I am advised that such an Order is not based on
        allegations of fraud and fabrication and can be granted
        by this Hon'ble Court without trial. I also state that the
        Plaintiff is entitled to other reliefs as prayed for in
        prayers (c), (d), (e), (f), (h) and (i).‖
22.   The amended prayer clause handed over by learned senior
counsel for plaintiff on 03rd May, 2019 is reproduced hereinbelow:-
23.   Learned senior counsel for the plaintiff contended that if the
plaintiff is able to show that the defendant has no real prospect of
successfully defending the claim, then unless the defendant shows that
there is a compelling reason to lead oral evidence, summary judgment
must be granted in favour of the plaintiff. He submitted that the onus
on the defendant for summary judgment is lower than the judgment onCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                       Page 15 of 77admission. He further submitted that judgment on admission is
discretionary, whereas summary judgment must be granted where the
Court finds that either plaintiff or defendant has no real prospect of
succeeding or there is no compelling reason to lead oral evidence. He
stated that discretion in grant of summary judgment lies in moulding
the relief only.
24.    Learned senior counsel for the plaintiff further submitted that
the test for summary judgment is not whether the defence is a sham or
moonshine-which is the test for leave to defend in a summary suit. He
submitted that the standard in a summary judgment should be lower
than that of a summary suit because there the Court has to decide
whether to allow a defence at all; whereas, in a summary judgment the
defence is on record as both the parties are duty bound to state on oath
that they have disclosed all documentary evidence in their possession.
25.    Learned senior counsel for plaintiff stated that Rule 24 of the
Civil Procedure Rules in England is pari materia to Order XIII-A.
Learned senior counsel for plaintiff relied upon the test for summary
judgment laid down by Courts in England and Wales inEasyair
Limited v. Opal Telecom Limited[2009] EWHC 339 (Ch.)which was
reiterated in Ruanne Dellal v. Guy Dellal, [2015] EWHC 907 (Fam)
and is reproduced hereinbelow-
―i) The court must consider whether the claimant has a
      "realistic" as opposed to a "fanciful" prospect of
      success: Swain v Hillman [2001] 1 All ER 91;
ii) A "realistic" claim is one that carries some degree of
      conviction. This means a claim that is more than merely
      arguable: ED & F Man Liquid Products v Patel [2003]
      EWCA Civ 472 at [8];
iii) In reaching its conclusion the court must not conduct a
     "mini-trial": Swain v Hillman;
iv) This does not mean that the court must take at face value
     and without analysis everything that a claimant says in his
     statements before the court. In some cases it may be clear
     that there is no real substance in factual assertions made,
     particularly    if   contradicted    by    contemporaneous
     documents: ED & F Man Liquid Products v Patel at [10];
v) However, in reaching its conclusion the court must take
     into account not only the evidence actually placed before it
     on the application for summary judgment, but also the
     evidence that can reasonably be expected to be available at
     trial: Royal Brompton Hospital NHS Trust v Hammond (No
5) [2001] EWCA Civ 550;
vi) Although a case may turn out at trial not to be really
     complicated, it does not follow that it should be decided
     without the fuller investigation into the facts at trial than is
     possible or permissible on summary judgment. Thus the court
     should hesitate about making a final decision without a trial,
     even where there is no obvious conflict of fact at the time of
     the application, where reasonable grounds exist for believing
     that a fuller investigation into the facts of the case would add
     to or alter the evidence available to a trial judge and so
     affect the outcome of the case: Doncaster Pharmaceuticals
     Group Ltd v Bolton Pharmaceutical Co 100 Ltd [2007] FSR
     63;
vii) On the other hand it is not uncommon for an application
     under Part 24 to give rise to a short point of law or
     construction and, if the court is satisfied that it has before it
     all the evidence necessary for the proper determination of the
     question and that the parties have had an adequate
     opportunity to address it in argument, it should grasp the
     nettle and decide it. The reason is quite simple: if the
     respondent's case is bad in law, he will in truth have no real
     prospect of succeeding on his claim or successfully defending
     the claim against him, as the case may be. Similarly, if theCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                          Page 17 of 77applicant's case is bad in law, the sooner that is determined,
      the better. If it is possible to show by evidence that although
      material in the form of documents or oral evidence that
      would put the documents in another light is not currently
      before the court, such material is likely to exist and can be
      expected to be available at trial, it would be wrong to give
      summary judgment because there would be a real, as
      opposed to a fanciful, prospect of success. However, it is not
      enough simply to argue that the case should be allowed to go
      to trial because something may turn up which would have a
      bearing on the question of construction: ICI Chemicals &
      Polymers Ltd v TTE Training Ltd [2007] EWCA Civ 725."
26.     Learned senior counsel for plaintiff submitted that summary
judgment could be refused if there was a compelling reason to conduct
a trial. The learned senior counsel referred to Blackstone's Civil
Practice: The Commentary and stated that compelling reasons for
going to trial include -
―(a) The respondent is unable to contact a material
        witness who may provide material for a defence.
(b) The case is highly complicated such that judgment
        should only be given after mature consideration at trial.
(c) The facts are wholly within the applicant's hands. In
        such a case it may be unjust to enter judgment without
        giving the respondent an opportunity of establishing a
        defence in the light of disclosure or after serving a request
        for further information. However, summary judgment will
        not necessarily be refused in cases where the evidence for
        any possible defence could only lie with the applicant if
        there is nothing devious or artificial in the claim.
(d) The applicant has acted harshly or unconscionably,
        or the facts disclose a suspicion of dishonesty or
        deviousness on the part of the applicant such thatCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                         Page 18 of 77judgment should only be obtained in the light of publicity
        at trial.‖
27.    Learned senior counsel for plaintiff stated that the only reason
for going to trial, in the present case, as set out by the defendant no.1
was that the plaintiff had made allegations of fraud and fabrication and
certain prayers were sought based on these allegations. He pointed out
that this reason no longer survived inasmuch as the plaintiff had given
up those prayers by filing an affidavit dated 02nd May, 2019.
28.    Learned senior counsel for plaintiff contended that defendant
no.1 had made no averment in his pleadings with respect to actual use
of the marks for inverters and in absence of such pleading, he could
not lead evidence for the same. He emphasised that reliance on trade
mark registrations which were not in respect of inverters were in any
case liable for cancellation on account of non-use.In support of his
submission, he relied upon a judgment of the Supreme Court inAmerican Home Products Corporation Vs. Mac Laboratories Pvt.
Ltd. & Anr., (1986) 1 SCC 465, wherein it has been held as under:-
29.    Learned senior counsel for the plaintiff emphasised that the
plaintiff‟s use of the SU-KAM mark for the inverter business was not
pursuant to any licence from the defendant no.1, but in its own right as
a proprietor of the mark. He pointed out that at the time of execution
of the alleged TMLA, the licence was not for use of the SU-KAM
trademark for the inverter business but in respect of Cable TVs and
related goods and services.
30.    Learned senior counsel for plaintiff contended, in any event,
that when the BT Agreement was executed, the mark Su-Kam was
unregistered and only ownership of the goodwill in the existing
business of defendant no.1 or goods which used the Su-Kam mark,
under licence from defendant no.1, could have been transferred under
the BT Agreement. He emphasised that the only business which the
erstwhile partnership was engaged in, at that time, was the business of
Cable TV and that the defendant no.1 did not own any goodwill in the
trade mark Su-Kam in relation to the inverter business. He therefore
contended that the statement in the BT Agreement could, at the most,
refer to ownership of the trade mark Su-Kam in relation to the Cable
TV business.
31.    Learned senior counsel for plaintiff stated that the terms of BT
Agreement stipulated that the Su-Kam would remain the property of
defendant no.1 and royalty in respect of the same would be decided
between the plaintiff and defendant no.1. He stated that admittedly no
royalty for the use of the brand Su-Kam had ever been paid by the
plaintiff.
32.      Learned senior counsel for the plaintiff further stated that the
Deed of Assignment dated 16th March, 2006, was invalid as it had
been executed by the defendant no.1 on behalf of both, the assignor
and the assignee and such act of the defendant no.1 was contrary to the
duties placed on the Director of a company underSection 166of the
Companies Act, 2013. He reiterated that the Deed of Assignment had
never been acted upon by the defendant no.1 and a request for recordal
of assignment was filed belatedly by the defendant no.1 on 18 th July,
2018, only i.e. after a gap of twelve years, which showed his mala
fides.
33.      Learned senior counsel for the plaintiff submitted that the
execution of Deed of Assignment was not authorised by the Board of
Directors on account of lack of proper quorum for the Board Meeting.
He stated that three members were present for the Board meeting on
20th March, 2006, i.e. defendant no.1, Mrs. Geeta Sachdeva (wife of
defendant no.1) and Mr. Nagender Bajaj.          He contended that as
defendant no.1 and Mrs. Geeta Sachdeva were interested Directors,
they could not ―take part in the discussions of or vote on‖ in
accordance with the mandate ofSection 300of the Companies Act,
1956.      He submitted that due to defendant no.1 and his wife‟s
participation in the Board Meeting on 20th March, 2006 any resolution
passed in the said meeting cannot be relied or acted upon.
SUR-REJOINDER AND REPLY
34.      At the fag end of the rejoinder arguments, learned counsel for
defendant no.1 filed an application underOrder VI Rule 17 CPCforCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                           Page 24 of 77amendment of the written statement incorporating the plea that the
present suit was barred by limitation. Learned counsel for defendant
no.1 submitted that the present application for amendment was
necessitated in view of the amendment of the prayer clause by the
plaintiff. The said amendment application was allowed vide order
dated 23rd August, 2019 without prejudice to the rights and
contentions of either of the parties.
35.   In sur-rejoinder, learned senior counsel for defendant no.1
submitted that the prayer regarding invalidity of the Deed of
Assignment dated 16th March, 2006 was barred by limitation as the
same could not be raised thirteen years after its execution because
Entry 58 of theSchedule to the Limitation Act, 1963stipulated that
the limitation for obtaining a declaration stating that the document is
invalid is limited to ―three years from when the right to sue accrued‖.
36.   According to learned senior counsel for defendant no.1, in the
present case the right to sue would accrue from the date the Deed of
Assignment was entered i.e. 16th March, 2006. Hence, he submitted
that the relief claimed by the plaintiff with regard to the declaration of
invalidity of the Deed of Assignment was barred by limitation.
37.   He lastly submitted that plaintiff‟s arguments with regard to
lack of quorum and interested directors were irrelevant and should not
be examined by this Court as it was not mandatory for the Board of
Directors to approve/sanction the Deed of Assignment.
38.   In reply, Mr. Amit Sibal, learned senior counsel for the plaintiff
submitted that the right to sue accrued in favour of plaintiff only in
2018 when defendant no.1 denied plaintiff‟s title to the SU-KAMCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                          Page 25 of 77marks in Class 9 of theTrade Marks Act, 1999and claimed ownership
before the Interim Resolution Professional. This according to him
resulted in the general public being deterred from submitting
resolution plans for plaintiff and consequently, only one resolution
plan had been received and that too from defendant no.1. Plaintiff
also placed reliance onSections 31and34of the Specific Relief Act,
1963.
COURT'S REASONING
UNDER RULE 3 OF ORDER XIII-ACPCTHERE WILL BE ‗NO
REAL PROSPECT OF SUCCESSFULLY DEFENDING THE
CLAIM' WHEN THE COURT IS ABLE TO MAKE THE
NECESSARY FINDING OF FACT, APPLY THE LAW TO THE
FACTS, AND THE SAME IS A PROPORTIONATE, MORE
EXPEDITIOUS AND LESS EXPENSIVE MEANS TO ACHIEVE
A FAIR AND JUST RESULT.
39.The Commercial Courts Act, 2015has been enacted with the
intent to improve efficiency and reduce delay in disposal of
commercial cases. The relevant portion of the Statement of Objects
and Reasons of the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 is reproduced
hereinbelow:-
40.   AmendedOrder XIIIA of CPC, as applicable to commercial
disputes, enables the Court to decide a claim or part thereof without
recording oral evidence.Order XIIIA of CPCseeks to avoid the long
drawn process of leading oral evidence in certain eventualities.
Consequently, the said provision enables disposal of commercial
disputes in a time bound manner and promotes the object of theCommercial Courts Act, 2015.
41.   Rule 3 of Order XIII-Aof CPCempowers the Court to grant a
summary judgment against a defendant where on an application filed
in that regard, the Court considers that the defendant has no real
prospect of successfully defending a claim, and there is no other
compelling reason why the claim should not be disposed of before
recording of oral evidence. Order XIIIA (3)of CPC, as applicable to
commercial disputes, is reproduced hereinbelow:-
(emphasis supplied)
42.   Consequently, the new Rule, applicable to commercial disputes,
demonstrates that trial is no longer the default procedure/norm.
43.   Rule 24.2 of Civil Procedure Rules in England is identical to
Rule 3 ofOrder XIIIA of CPC. It refers to the words ‗no realCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                        Page 27 of 77prospect' of being successful or succeeding. Rule 24.2 of Civil
Procedure Rules in England is reproduced hereinbelow:-
44.   While deciding the test for summary judgment under Rule 24.2,
House of Lords in Three Rivers District Council and Others vs.
Governor and Company of the Bank of England [2003] 2 A.C. 1,
reiterated the observation in Swain v Hillman [2001] 1 All ER 91 that
the word ‗real' distinguishes ‗fanciful' prospects of success and it
directs the Court to examine whether there is a ‗realistic' as opposed
to a ‗fanciful' prospect of success. The House of Lords in Three
Rivers District Council (supra) also held that the Court while
considering the words ‗no real prospect' should look to see what will
happen at the trial and that if the case is so weak that it has no
reasonable prospect of success, it should be stopped before great
expenses are incurred. The relevant portion of the Three Rivers
District Council (supra) judgment is reproduced hereinebelow:-
[92] The overriding objective of the CPR is to enable the
    court to deal with cases justly: rule 1.1. To adopt the
    language ofarticle 6(1)of the European Convention for the
    Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms
    with which this aim is consistent, the court must ensure that
    there is a fair trial. It must seek to give effect to the
    overriding objective when it exercises any power given to it
    by the Rules or interprets any rule: rule 1.2. While the
    difference between the two tests is elusive, in many cases the
    practical effect will be the same. In more difficult and
    complex cases such as this one, attention to the overriding
    objective of dealing with the case justly is likely to be more
    important than a search for the precise meaning of the rule.
    As May LJ said in Purdy v Cambran (unreported) 17
    December 1999: Court of Appeal (Civil Division) Transcript
    No 2290 of 1999:
45.   The Supreme Court of Canada in Robert Hryniak v. Fred
Mauldin and Ors, 2014 SCC OnLine Can SC 53 has also held that
trial should not be the default procedure. In the said case, which was
an action for civil fraud against the appellant and a corporate lawyer,
who acted for the appellant, the allegation was that the appellant,
through that company, had transferred more than US $10 million to an
offshore bank following which he claimed that the money had been
stolen. That money had initially been transferred to the appellant‟s
company, by the respondents therein, in respect of an investment
opportunity.
46.   The Trial Court as well as the Court of Appeal considered Rule
20 of the Ontario Rules of Civil Procedure (RCP) and the appropriate
standard of review in granting a summary judgment. Rule 20 of RCP
reads as: ―....(1) The court shall grant a summary judgment if, (a) theCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                          Page 31 of 77court is satisfied that there is no genuine issue requiring a trial with
respect to a claim or defence; or (b) the parties agree to have all or
part of the claim determined by a summary judgment and the court is
satisfied that it is appropriate to grant summary judgment. (2.1) In
determining under clause (2)(a) whether there is a genuine issue
requiring a trial, the court shall consider the evidence submitted by
the parties.....‖. It is pertinent to mention that the amendments to the
RCP in December 2008 changed the test from ―a genuine issue for
trial‖ to whether ―there is a genuine issue requiring trial‖. The case
was thereafter referred to the Supreme Court of Canada by way of an
appeal from the Court of Appeal.
47.   The Supreme Court of Canada, despite allegation of fraud, did
not exercise the power to record oral evidence. Instead, the Court
granted summary judgment in favour of the respondents/plaintiff on
the basis of the material/pleadings already available with it. The Court
held that there is no genuine issue requiring a trial when the judge is
able to reach a fair and just determination on the merits on a motion
for summary judgment. The Court further held that that is the case
when the process allows the judge to make necessary findings of fact,
allows the judge to apply the law to such facts and when such a
process is proportionate, more expeditious and a less expensive means
of achieving a just result. Consequently, when a summary judgment
motion allows the judge to find the necessary facts and resolve the
dispute, it would not be necessary to proceed to trial. In this regard
the standard for fairness is whether or not the procedure involved in a
summary judgment would give the judge the confidence to findCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                        Page 32 of 77necessary facts and apply the relevant legal principles to resolve the
dispute. The relevant portion of the said judgment is reproduced
hereinbelow:-
(2.1) [Powers] In determining under clause (2)(a) whether
      there is a genuine issue requiring a trial, the court shall
      consider the evidence submitted by the parties and, if the
      determination is being made by a judge, the judge may
      exercise any of the following powers for the purpose, unless
      it is in the interest of justice for such powers to be exercised
      only at a trial:
(2.2) [Oral Evidence (Mini-Trial)] A judge may, for the
      purposes of exercising any of the powers set out in sub-rule
      (2.1), order that oral evidence be presented by one or more
      parties, with or without time limits on its presentation.
[43] The Ontario amendments changed the test for summary
      judgment from asking whether the case presents ―a genuine
      issue for trial‖ to asking whether there is a ―genuine
      issue requiring a trial‖. The new rule, with its enhanced
      fact-finding powers, demonstrates that a trial is not the
      default procedure. Further, it eliminated the presumption of
      substantial indemnity costs against a party that brought an
      unsuccessful motion for summary judgment, in order to
      avoid deterring the use of the procedure.
xxx                xxx                xxx
      [49] There will be no genuine issue requiring a trial when
      the judge is able to reach a fair and just determination on
      the merits on a motion for summary judgment. This will be
      the case when the process (1) allows the judge to make the
      necessary findings of fact, (2) allows the judge to apply the
      law to the facts, and (3) is a proportionate, more
      expeditious and less expensive means to achieve a just
      result.
[50] These principles are interconnected and all speak to
      whether summary judgment will provide a fair and just
      adjudication. When a summary judgment motion allows the
      judge to find the necessary facts and resolve the dispute,
      proceeding to trial would generally not be proportionate,
      timely or cost effective. Similarly, a process that does not
      give a judge confidence in her conclusions can never be the
      proportionate way to resolve a dispute. It bears reiterating
      that the standard for fairness is not whether the procedure
      is as exhaustive as a trial, but whether it gives the judgeCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                       Page 36 of 77confidence that she can find the necessary facts and apply
      the relevant legal principles so as to resolve the dispute.‖
                                               (emphasis supplied)
48.   In fact, the Federal Court Ottawa, Ontario in Louis Vuitton
Malletier S.A. v. Singga Enterprises (Canada) Inc., 2011 FC 776 and
High Court of Ireland in Abbey International Finance Ltd. v. Point
Ireland Helicopters Ltd. Anr, [2012] IEHC 374, have held that even
damages as well as unliquidated compensation can be awarded by way
of summary judgment. The relevant portion of the said judgments are
reproduced hereinbelow:-
admittedly low-standard of proof which has to be achieved in
      order to avoid summary judgment. In the absence of an
      ability to seek summary judgment in a non-liquidated claim
      an unmeritorious defendant can procrastinate for months or
      perhaps years. That would be an obvious injustice to a
      plaintiff in such a case.
19. I believe there to be an inherent jurisdiction in the
      court to enable a plaintiff to seek summary judgment in such
      circumstances. It is true that there is no specific provision in
      the Rules of the superior Courts to enable such anCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                         Page 38 of 77application to be brought, save in respect of cases in the
      Commercial List to which I will turn in due course. But the
      absence of a specific rule should not deny a meritorious
      plaintiff from speedy relief against an unmeritorious
      defendant in an appropriate case.‖
                                                (emphasis supplied)
49.   Consequently, this Court is of the view that when a summary
judgment application allows the Court to find the necessary facts and
resolve the dispute, proceeding to trial would generally not be
proportionate, timely or cost effective. It bears reiteration that the
standard for fairness is not whether the procedure is as exhaustive as a
trial, but whether it gives the Court the confidence that it can find the
necessary facts and apply the relevant legal principles so as to resolve
the dispute as held in Robert Hryniak (supra).
50.   In fact, the legislative intent behind introducing summary
judgment underOrder XIIIA of CPCis to provide a remedy
independent, separate and distinct from judgment on admissions and
summary judgment underOrder XXXVII of CPC.
51.   This Court clarifies that in its earlier judgment inVenezia
Mobili (India) Pvt. Ltd. vs. Ramprastha Promoters & Developers
Pvt. Ltd. & Ors., 2019 SCC OnLine Del 7761 while deciding two
applications, both filed by the plaintiff in the said case (one under
Order XII Rule 6 and other under Order XIIIA) it had applied the
lowest common denominator test under both the provisionsof the
Code of Civil Procedureand held that the suit could be decreed by
way of a summary judgment.
52.   Consequently, this Court is of the opinion that there will be ‗no
real prospect of successfully defending the claim' when the Court is
able to reach a fair and just determination on the merits of the
application for summary judgment. This will be the case when the
process allows the court to make the necessary finding of fact,
apply the law to the facts, and the same is a proportionate, more
expeditious and less expensive means to achieve a fair and just
result.
AS THE PLAINTIFF HAS GIVEN UP ITS PRAYERS BASED ON
FRAUD, THE SUBMISSION THAT SUCH RELIEFS CANNOT BE
GRANTED WITHOUT A TRIAL IS OTIOSE.
53.   In view of the plaintiff having given up its claims and prayers
based on fraud and fabrication by filing an affidavit dated 02 nd May,
2019, the submission of defendant no.1 that such reliefs cannot be
granted without a trial does not survive.
SINCE THE PLAINTIFF IS THE EXCLUSIVE REGISTERED
PROPRIETOR OF THE MARKS SU-KAM IN CLASS 9, THE
DEFENDANT NO. 1'S SUBMISSIONS WITH REGARD TO EARLIER
TMLA OR BT AGREEMENT AND/OR SUBSEQUENT DEED OF
ASSIGNMENT ARE BASELESS AND INCONSEQUENTIAL.
54.   In the present case, plaintiff is the registered proprietor of the
mark SU-KAM with respect to inverters which falls within the scope
of Class 9-in which class admittedly defendant no.1 has no
registration. Registration certificates for the marks SU-KAM in favour
of the plaintiff in Class 9 of theTrade Marks Act, 1999along with
status pages from Trade Marks Registry‟s E-Register are reproduced
hereinbelow:-
As annexed




Sealed at my direction this          05th           day of February, 2011
                                                      Sd/-
Certificate Detail   Certificate No. 925845 Dated : 05/02/2011
Valid upto/          09/03/2026
Renewed upto
Proprietor name     (1) SU-KAM POWER SYSTEMS LTD;
Body Incorporate
Proprietor Address WZ-1401/2, NANGAL RAYA NEW DELHI-110046.
FOR BATTERIES OF DIFFERENT TYPES AND SIZES,
                    BATTERY WATER, SOLAR INVERTERS, CHARGE
                    CONTROLLERS AND POWER CONDITIONING UNITS (PCU)
                    AND OTHER SOLAR ENERGY RELATED PRODUCTS"
55.      From the aforesaid Certificates it is apparent that the plaintiff is
the exclusive registered proprietor of the SU-KAM marks for the
inverter business in Class 9 of theTrade Marks Act, 1999and the
same had been renewed on 05th October, 2008 and 09th March, 2016
when the defendant no. 1 was in exclusive control and management of
the plaintiff-company.
56.      Admittedly, till date no rectification application has been filed
by defendant no.1 and plaintiff has spent huge amounts of money on
expanding its business, advertising and defending the marks by filing
suits.
57.      The defendant no.1‟s defence that though it had initially applied
for the mark in its name, yet the registration had been granted in
plaintiff‟s favour ‗cuts no ice' as the defendant no.1 was in the
management of the plaintiff company right from inception till
appointment of resolution professional on 11th May, 2018 and during
this period applications for renewal of the said marks had also been
filed. It is pertinent to mention that even during arguments learned
senior counsel for defendant no.1 repeatedly emphasised that
defendant no.1 treated the plaintiff as his alter-ego. Consequently, the
defendant no.1 was all throughout aware of the aforesaid two
registrations as well as their renewals and as he has not challenged the
said registrations till date, his right, if any, in the said marks in Class 9
of theTrade Marks Act, 1999stands, if not extinguished, at least
barred by limitation.
58.      Accordingly, as the aforesaid registrations are legal, valid as
well as subsisting and in any event as there is no challenge to themCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                             Page 47 of 77either by way of a substantive suit or a counter-claim by the defendant
no.1, the contentions and submissions of defendant no.1 with regard to
adoption or licensing by way of TMLA or BT Agreement and/or
transfer by way of Deed of Assignment are baseless, irrelevant as well
as inconsequential and the plaintiff is the exclusive registered
proprietor of SU-KAM marks in Class 9 of theTrade Marks Act,
1999.
AS THE LICENCE GRANTED UNDER TMLA WAS ―NON
TRANSFERABLE‖ IN NATURE AND THERE IS NO PLEADING
THAT THE ERSTWHILE PARTNERSHIPS WERE ENGAGED IN
INVERTER BUSINESS, ANY LICENCE UNDER THE TMLA COULD
HAVE BEEN IN RESPECT OF THE GOODWILL ASSOCIATED
WITH THE CABLE TV BUSINESS ONLY.
59.     Dehors the aforesaid fundamental reasoning, this Court finds
that Clause 1 of the TMLA, states that the licence granted was ―non
transferable‖ in nature. Clause 1 of the TMLA is reproduced
hereinbelow:-
60.     It is the defendant no.1‟s case that the partnership firm, to which
the licence was granted, ceased to exist and the business was
transferred to the plaintiff. Consequently, the use of the SU-KAMCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                           Page 48 of 77marks by plaintiff is not derived from, or under any authority of
defendant no.1.
61.   Further, proceeding on the basis that TMLA is authentic, this
Court is of the view that it did not apply to the plaintiff and did not
create a licensor-licencee relationship between defendant no.1 and
plaintiff as there is no reference to inverter business in the TMLA.
62.   Learned senior counsel for defendant no.1 submitted across the
bar that language in the TMLA implies inverters. However, there is no
pleading in the written statement to the effect that the erstwhile
partnerships or defendant no.1 was engaged in inverter business and
no evidence can be led beyond or contrary to pleadings.
63.   In any event, assuming that the TMLA specifically mentioned
―inverters‖ it would then also not help defendant no.1 as defendant
no.1 has admitted in the written statement that the two erstwhile
partnerships were only conducting cable TV business. There is no plea
that they were engaged in any other business, let alone inverters.
64.   It is settled law that where a mark is unregistered, as it was at
that stage, ownership of the proprietor is not in the trade mark, but in
the goodwill associated with the business where the trade mark is
used. Since the inverter business was never carried out by the
partnership, no goodwill was generated in favour of defendant no.1 for
the inverter business. Consequently, any licence under the TMLA
could have been a licence in respect of the goodwill associated with
the cable TV business only, since that was admittedly the business
conducted by the partnership.
65.   Accordingly, based on the admissions of defendant no.1 and
applicable law, it can safely be said that the TMLA does not cover the
inverter business and never was and is not applicable to the plaintiff.
Consequently, no purpose will be served by leading oral evidence on
whether the TMLA covers the inverter business.
66.   The statement in the BT Agreement relied upon by defendant
no.1 refers to his existing ownership rights in the partnership.
However, this Court is of the view that since no inverter business was
carried out by the partnership, there was no existing right pertaining to
SU-KAM marks with respect to inverters. Accordingly, the statement
in the BT Agreement could, at most, refer to ownership of the trade
mark Su-Kam in relation to the Cable TV business. Moreover, as
stated hereinabove, in view of the registration certificate dated 22nd
June, 2005 and 05th February, 2011 in favour of the plaintiff having
come into effect on 05th October, 1998 and 09th March, 2006
respectively, the contrary averment/recital in BT Agreement dated 16th
September, 1999, is of no legal consequence.
THE DEED OF ASSIGNMENT IS VOID FOR BREACH OF
FIDUCIARY DUTY AND ON ACCOUNT OF LACK OF QUORUM
AS THE VOTES OF DEFENDANT NO.1 AND HIS WIFE WOULD
HAVE TO BE DISREGARDED FOR BEING INTERESTED
DIRECTORS.
67.   In the opinion of this Court, the Deed of Assignment is void for
breach of fiduciary duty, as it had been executed by defendant no.1,
both as assignor and assignee and it purports to transfer the substratum
of plaintiff‟s business to its Director (defendant no. 1) for nominal
consideration of Rs. 5,000/- by an alleged recordal twelve years laterCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                         Page 50 of 77and that too after commencement of Corporate Insolvency Resolution
Process!
68.    The Deed of Assignment is further invalid because it contains
statements that the plaintiff-company is the licencee of the defendant
no.1, which is falsified by agreement itself, which is for assignment.
If the assertion with respect to licence was true, the Deed/Agreement
would be for rectification and not for assignment by an owner!
69.    The Deed of Assignment is also invalid because it portrays as if
the plaintiff had authorised it vide Resolution dated 20th March, 2006;
but the same is neither legal nor valid on account of lack of quorum
underSection 287of the Company Act, 1956 as the votes of two out
of three Directors namely, defendant no.1 and his wife would have to
be disregarded for being beneficiaries/interested Directors by virtue ofSection 300of the Companies Act, 1956.Section 300(1)of the
Companies Act, 1956 states as under:-
(emphasis supplied)
70.    Moreover, Deed of Assignment is ineffective against plaintiff
because it had acquired a conflicting interest in the registered trade
mark without the knowledge of assignment or transmission as in theCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                        Page 51 of 77present case between 16th March, 2006 (i.e. date of execution of Deed
of Assignment) and 09th July 2018 (i.e. when the defendant no.1
submitted the Deed of Assignment to the Interim Resolution
Professional), there was no assertion or representation by defendant
no.1 that plaintiff is not the owner of the SU-KAM mark in Class 9.
Consequently, defendant no.1 had always held out plaintiff to be the
owner of the SU-KAM marks which the plaintiff believed to be true.
In view of this, defendant no.1 is estopped from contending to the
contrary and Mohori Bibee & Anr. Vs. Dharmodas Ghose, 7 CWN
441 is not applicable to the present case.
71.It is settled law that defendant no.1 cannot be permitted to take
advantage of his own breach of fiduciary duty to divest the company
of its substratal asset as held inGlobe Motors Ltd. Vs. Mehta Teja
Singh & Co., 1983 SCC OnLine Del 193. The relevant portion ofthe
said judgmentis reproduced hereinbelow:-
He proposed that his company should undertake to place
      them for a commission of 1-1/2 percent to the company. He
      was held liable to account of 3-1/2 percent. In so deciding
      Malins, V.C. made the following observations, which were
      later on upheld by the House of Lords:--
‗Thus a director may be shown to be so placed and to have
      been so closely and so long associated personally with the
      management of the company that he will be deemed to be not
      merely cognizant of but liable for fraud in the conduct of the
      business of the company even though no specific act of
      dishonesty is proved against him personally. He cannot shut
      his eyes to what must be obvious to everyone who examines
      the affairs of the company even superficially. If he does 50 he
      could be held liable for dereliction of duties undertaken by
      him and compelled to make good the losses incurred by the
      company due to his neglect even if he is not shown to be
      guilty of participating in the commission of fraud (emphasis
      supplied). It is enough if his negligence is of such a character
      as to enable frauds to be committed and losses thereby
      incurred by the company‖. (Vide Official Liqidator v. PA.
      Tendolkar, (1973) 43 Company Gases 382 at 384.
10. A derivative action can be brought against directors who
      are in control of the company to compel such directors to
      account to the company for profits made by appropriating for
      themselves a business opportunity which the company would
      otherwise have enjoyed. (Vide Penington's Company Law 4th
      Edition, paqe 596).
11.Gower in Company Law 3rd Edition page 526 has noticed
      that because of the trustee like position of the directors a
      contract between the company with another firm of
      partnership of which one of the directors was a partner have
      been avoided at the instance of the company notwithstanding
      that its terms were perfectly fair and that in the words of
      Lord Cranworth L.G. ―so strictly is this principle adhered to
      that no question is allowed to be raised as to the fairness or
      unfairness of a contract so entered into......‖. Thus the
      contract will be voidable at the instance of a company and
      any profits made by the Directors personally will be
      recoverable by the company (page 527 supra).
12. Various remedies could be resorted to by the Company in
      case of a breach of duties by the Directors. Thus one of the
      remedies provided to the company is recession of a contract,
      another is accounting for profits. The liability of the Director
      may arise out of a contract made between a director and a
      company. In such a case accounting is a remedy additional to
      avoidance of contract and is normally available whether or
      not is there recession, (page 556 supra. Gower).
13. A resume of the law would thus clearly show that no
      doubt theCompanies Actdoes not forbid a contract being
      entered into by the company with a firm in which one of the
      Directors is a partners, it is also true that the respondent
      Director disclosed his interest in the agreement when the
      same was approved by the Board of Directors at its meeting
      held on 15-6-1967. But this fact by itself does not
      automatically prove that the arrangement which had been
      entered into by the company was not of such a nature which
      keeping in view the fiduciary relationship of Mehta Harnam
      Singh, a director of the company should not have been so
      entered into, thus giving a right to the company to avoid the
      contract and to ask for the recovery of the profits made by
      the Director. The test to be applied in the present case is--
      had the company been a going concern and had some
      payments in pursuance of this very agreement been made to
      the respondents could the company have asked for recession
      of the contract or in case any payments had been made to the
      respondent Harnam Singh and others, for the return of the
      same to the company. If the answer is in the affirmative, the
      claim of the appellant must succeed.
14. We must now turn to the examination of the agreement to
      find out whether its terms were such which in the words of
      the Supreme Court would show that circumstances were such
      that there could be no other conclusion than that the same
      was arrived at because of the peculiar position, which the
      respondent as Director, enjoyed in the company.
xxx               xxx                 xxxCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                         Page 57 of 77
19. It will thus be seen that out of 13 directors who attended
      the Board meeting on 15-6-1967, 6 of them were interested in
      three agreements which were approved by the Board on that
      day. Technically we may accept what is recorded in the
      minutes of the Board that the Directors had disclosed their
      interest in the agreement which was being approved and also
      did not take part in the discussion or voted on the resolution.
      Though therefore, there may not be any technical objection
      to these resolutions yet we cannot overlook the patent
      incongruity of accepting that unbiased mind was brought to
      bear on the merits of these agreements when almost half of
      the Board was interested in one or the other agreement. ‗In
      such a case the criticism that this was nothing but mutual
      backslapping to enrich themselves does not sound
      improbable. As Gower on Company Law in commenting on
      such kind of disclosures says--‗in marked contrast with the
      basic equitable principle, the disclosure required is not to the
      general meeting but to the board. It hardly seems over-
      cynical to suggest that disclosure to one's cronies is a less
      effective restraint on self seeking than disclosures to those for
      whom one is a fiduciary.
xxx                 xxx                 xxx
21. The learned single Judge has not accepted that the
      contract was without consideration. The learned Judge holds
      that it was a service contract for the purpose of employment
      to boost sales and because of this service there was a good
      consideration even to paying Rs. 1 lakh 20 thousand per
      annum as a minimum fee. Normally if a party undertakes to
      boost sales and use his expertise for this purpose on some
      minimum fee it is possible to say that there was a proper
      consideration for contract. But it was theOfficial
      Liquidator's case in reply to the application for arbitration
      that none of these agencies including the respondents had
      ever dealt with steel products or had any experience in the
      line and that this device was fraudulently and collusively
      adopted to siphen away the company's funds for the
      individual and personal benefits of the said directors, at a
      time when the company to their full knowledge was passingCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                         Page 58 of 77through a financial crisis beginning with July 1966. It was
      also stated that they had not rendered any service and the
      agreement had never been acted upon. Infact Shri B. K. Bedi,
      the Chairman of the company who had negotiated the sales
      originally was unable to contradict that the plaintiff firm did
      not secure any business for the company. He also admitted
      that the firm was not associated with any other steel unit or
      any other manufacturing unit. He did not know that they had
      any experience as manufacturer. The control and the
      influence that these persons could exercise on the whole
      Board is apparent from his admission that Directors Kirpa
      Ram Saluja, Narinder Singh Kohli and a few other directors
      were even on the Finance Committee of the company and this
      committee had favoured the grant of selling agency to the
      respondent. Thus it is crystal clear that it is a case where the
      Board of 13 approved of these agreements, which granted the
      distribution rights of the company's steel products to 6 of
      themselves, of course after complying with the formality of
      disclosing their interest. Had the presence of Directors been
      the only objection but the terms on which the agreement was
      entered into showed some kind of fairness and business
      arrangement normally expected of an ordinary business man,
      it might have been still possible to uphold the agreement. But
      the terms incorporated in the agreement leave no manner of
      doubt that the only interest that was kept in view was the
      personal benefit and profit of these directors and that too at
      great cost and to the gross detriment of the interest of the
      company.
xxx                 xxx                  xxx
24. We cannot but hold the terms of the agreement dated 1-6-
      1967 as approved by the Board were anything but to the
      detriment of the company. This was an arrangement which
      was made simply to siphon of Rs. 1 lakh and 20 thousand per
      annum as a minimum fee to the Directors without doing a
      single patch of work for the benefit of the company. This the
      directors were able to do because of their close association
      and control over the Board of Directors. This was not a case
      in which only one of the directors was favoured by suchCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                         Page 59 of 77arrangement. Six of the directors out of 13 who attended the
      meeting were the beneficiaries of the arrangement which was
      also agreed to by the 7th member who was the chairman of
      the company. This was a case of such blatant unfairness
      against the company that as the Supreme Court said that it
      would be obvious to any one who examines the affairs of the
      company even superficially that there was not one single
      redeeming feature in the agreement. In that view the
      company would have been justified, had any benefit been
      taken by the respondents to ask for the account and the
      restoration of the amount. In the present case the
      respondents chose to claim to have the matter referred to the
      arbitrator. It is interesting to note that in the statement of
      claim filed before the arbitrator the respondents have prayed
      for a payment of Rs. 6 lakhs which is worked out at the rate
      of 10,000/- per month for 5 years, no suggestion of having
      done any work is even mentioned. This also would show the
      untenable nature of the arrangement so far as the company
      was concerned. This agreement is patently against the
      interest and benefit of the company.
25. We would, therefore, hold that this agreement was
      vitiated and void and the official liquidator representing the
      company is entitled to ask for its recession. As we are
      satisfied that this agreement of 1-6-1967 which was approved
      by the Board of Directors on 15-6-1967 was not in the
      interest and benefit of the company the same is, therefore,
      liable to be avoided by the Official Liquidator. In that view of
      the matter as the agreement is held not to be subsisting,
      being void, and as the arbitration clause forms a part of the
      agreement will naturally not survive. The effect would be that
      there is no existing arbitration agreement and the
      respondents cannot ask for the matter to be referred to
      arbitration.‖
                                              (emphasis supplied)
72.   Consequently, the Deed of Assignment is void for breach of
fiduciary duty.
SINCE RECORDAL OF DEED OF ASSIGNMENT IS MANDATORY,
DEFENDANT NO.1 CANNOT RELY ON THE SAID DOCUMENT
73.   Assuming that the Deed of Assignment is valid, this Court is of
the view that recordal of the said Deed is mandatory, as held by a
Coordinate Bench of this Court inRamaiah Life Style Cafe vs.
Eminent     Entertainment    &   Ors.,   CS(COMM)1433/2016,              as
admittedly the amendedSection 45of the Trade Marks Act applies to
the present case. In distinguishing Section 45 as it presently stands,
from the pre-amendment version of Section 45, a Coordinate Bench of
this Court observed in the aforesaid case that non-compliance of
mandatory requirement to record assignments would amount to
flouting the law. It was held that any person not complying with the
mandatory provision cannot take benefit despite such non-compliance.
The relevant portion ofthe said judgmentis reproduced hereinbelow:-
Ltd. Vs. Suresh Kumar Jasraj Burad2012 SCC OnLine Bom
      438 has held that though prior to the amendment registration
      of assignment under Section 45 could not be said to be a
      mere formality but is so after the amendment.
22. One thing which is however clear as a day light on a
      reading of Section 45 is that registration of assignment under
      Section 45 is mandatory. This is evident from the use of the
      word „Shall‟ in Section 45(1).
23. Thus it is mandatory for a assignee of a registered trade
      mark to apply in the prescribed manner to the Registrar,
      Trade Marks to register his title thereto.
24. Seen in this light what distinguishes the present case fromSun Pharmaceuticals Industries Limitedsupra and the
      judgments relied upon therein is that while in all those cases
      the plaintiff had applied to the Registrar, Trade Marks for
      registration of his title to the trade mark by assignment or
      transmission and non-registration was not attributable to any
      default on the part of the plaintiff therein, the plaintiff herein
      for the last nearly eight years from the date of the claimed
      assignment and for the last nearly five years since the
      admitted knowledge of claimed infringement has not even
      applied to the Registrar of the Trade Marks for registering
      the assignment of trade mark in its favour. The possibility of
      the plaintiff not doing so for reasons not spelled out before
      this Court cannot be ruled out. The fact that the plaintiff has
      not chosen to make M/s Ramaiah Developers & Builders (P)
      Ltd. as a party to this suit also raises doubt as to the validity
      of the assignment, on the basis whereof this suit for
      infringement has been filed.
25. Even otherwise, I am of the opinion that if this Court
      inspite of such delays and neglect on the part of the plaintiff
      grants to the plaintiff all the benefits and privileges to which
      a registered proprietor is entitled to, the same would amountCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                          Page 64 of 77to this Court allowing mandatory provisions of the statute to
      be flouted and/or not penalising the plaintiff therefor, making
      the statutory provisions otiose.‖
                                                (emphasis supplied)
74.   Consequently, defendant no.1 cannot rely on a document that
was mandatory to register. Further, inSun Pharmaceuticals
Industries Limited(supra) application for recordal was filed in 2000
for a 1998 assignment and delay in recordal was by the trade marks
registry, whereas in the present case the application for recordal is
made after more than twelve years, after commencement of Corporate
Insolvency Resolution Process, on 18th July, 2018.
DEFENDANT NO.1 IS ESTOPPED FROM LEADING EVIDENCE
OF HIS TITLE TO THE SU-KAM MARKS IN RESPECT OF CLASS 9,
IN VIEW OF HIS REPRESENTATIONS THAT THE PLAINTIFF IS
THE EXCLUSIVE OWNER.
75.   This Court is also of the opinion that defendant no.1 is estopped
from leading evidence of his title to the SU-KAM marks in respect of
Class 9, in view of his representations to the plaintiff and the world at
large that the plaintiff is the exclusive owner, on which plaintiff had
relied by expanding its business and by spending money on
advertisements and promoting its business under the impugned mark.
76.   In fact, just seven days before the Deed of Assignment plaintiff
applied for registration of mark (i.e. on 09th March, 2006) and just
fifteen days after, defendant no.1 held out to plaintiff and Reliance
India Power Fund (i.e. on 31st March, 2006) that the company was the
owner of the trade mark in question. Though the Share SubscriptionCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                         Page 65 of 77Cum Shareholders Agreement gives status of trademarks and
registrations in an annexure being Exhibit H as on 27th February,
2006, yet the covenant in the said Agreement dated 31st March, 2006
clearly stipulates that all products and names listed in Exhibit H are
owned and held by the plaintiff company and ―All rights to
Intellectual Property are owned exclusively by the Company
(Plaintiff), free and clear of any encumbrances, and no other person
has any right or interest in or license to use or right to license others
to use any of them.‖
77.   In any event, the SU-KAM marks with respect to inverters in
Class 9 of theTrade Marks Act, 1999were subsequently renewed by
the plaintiff-company on 05th October, 2008 and 09th March, 2016
when defendant no. 1 was in its control and management.
78.   A suit had also been filed in 2015 for infringement of the SU-
KAM marks by the plaintiff when the defendant no.1 was the
Managing Director of the plaintiff company and held more than eighty
per cent of its shares.    In the said suit, filed under the aegis of
defendant no.1, plaintiff was identified as the owner of the SU-KAM
marks. Plaintiff then under the exclusive management and control of
defendant no.1 had averred in the said plaint, ―The plaintiff was the
first company in India that started a system for power backup in
India....the products launched by the plaintiff under the mark SU-
KAM have acquired a high degree of distinctiveness in the country
due to continuous, extensive and popular use since a long
uninterrupted period of more than 25 years making it a well-known
mark. Resultantly, the mark SU-KAM is today perceived by theCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                         Page 66 of 77general public as well as by members of the trade as originating from
plaintiff and no one else. It is submitted that by virtue of the
aforementioned long, continuous and extensive use of the trademark
SU-KAM and other related trademarks with the aforesaid trademark
registrations for the same in favour of plaintiff, plaintiff has acquired
both common law rights as well as statutory rights over exclusive use
of the mark SU-KAM‖.
79.      If the erstwhile partnerships had commenced the inverter
business and defendant no.1 was resultantly the owner of the SU-
KAM trade mark for inverters, these statements could not have been
made.
80.      Further, when defendant no.1 submitted his bid for the plaintiff
company during the ongoing insolvency proceedings, he had relied
upon a brand valuation report dated 03rd March, 2015 undertaken by
Ernst and Young which identified plaintiff-company to be the owner
of the SU-KAM marks.
81.      The Supreme Court inB.L. Sreedhar & Ors. Vs. K.M.
Munireddy & Ors., (2003) 2 SCC 355 has held that if a man either by
words or by his conduct intimates that he consents to an act, he cannot
question the legality of the act to the prejudice of those who have so
given faith to his words or to the fair inference to be drawn from his
conduct.The relevant portion ofB.L. Sreedhar(supra) is reproduced
hereinbelow:-
13, para 448) The rule on the subject is thus laid down by Lord
   Denman, in Pickard v. Sears [(1837) 6 Ad & El 469 : 112 ER 179]
   Ad & E at p. 474: ER p. 181

         ―But the rule of law is clear, that, where one by his words or
      conduct wilfully causes another to believe the existence of a
      certain state of things, and induces him to act on that belief, so
      as to alter his own previous position, the former is concluded
      from averring against the latter a different state of things as
      existing at the same time;‖

          ―The whole doctrine of estoppel of this kind, which is a
      fictitious statement treated as true, might have been founded in
      reason, but I am not sure that it was. There is another kind of
      estoppel -- estoppel by representation -- which is founded upon
      reason and it is founded upon decision also.‖ Per Jessel, M.R.
      in General Finance & Co. v. Liberator [(1878) 10 Ch D 15 :
82.   Consequently, defendant no.1 is estopped from contending that
he is the owner of SU-KAM marks in respect of Class 9 of theTrade
Marks Act, 1999.
BETWEEN 16TH MARCH, 2006 (I.E. DATE OF EXECUTION OF
DEED OF ASSIGNMENT) AND 09TH JULY 2018 (I.E. WHEN THE
DEFENDANT NO.1 SUBMITTED THE DEED OF ASSIGNMENT TO
THE INTERIM RESOLUTION PROFESSIONAL), THERE WAS NO
ASSERTION BY DEFENDANT NO.1 THAT PLAINTIFF IS NOT THE
OWNER OF THE SU-KAM MARK IN CLASS 9. ACCORDINGLY,
THE PRESENT SUIT IS WITHIN LIMITATION.
83.Article 58of theLimitation Act, 1963, states that the limitation
period for obtaining any other declaration is three years, ―when the
right to sue first accrues‖.
84.   The Apex Court inKhatri Hotels Private Limited & Anr. vs.
Union of India & Anr., (2011) 9 SCC 126 while interpretingArticle
58of theLimitation Act, 1963, relied on earlier judgments interpreting
similarArticle 120of the Limitation Act, 1908. The relevant portion
ofthe said judgmentreads as under:-
29.InRukhmabai v. Lala Laxminarayanthe three-Judge
      Bench noticed the earlier judgments and summed up the legal
      position in the following words:
The said cause of action again arose in favour of the plaintiff on 18 th
July, 2018 when defendant no.1 relying upon the alleged Deed of
Assignment applied for recordal of assignment with the Trade Mark
Registry.
89.   Accordingly, the present suit is within limitation.
CONCLUSION
90.   To reiterate, the intent behind incorporating the summary
judgment procedure in theCommercial Court Act, 2015is to ensure
disposal of commercial disputes in a time-bound manner. In fact, the
applicability ofOrder XIIIA, CPCto commercial disputes,
demonstrates that the trial is no longer the default procedure/norm.
91.   Rule 3 ofOrder XIIIA, CPC, as applicable to commercial
disputes, empowers the Court to grant a summary judgement against
the defendant where the Court considers that the defendant has no realCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                          Page 73 of 77prospects of successfully defending the claim and there is no other
compelling reason why the claim should not be disposed of before
recording of oral evidence. The expression ―real‖ directs the Court to
examine whether there is a ―realistic‖ as opposed to ―fanciful‖
prospects of success. This Court is of the view that the expression ―no
genuine issue requiring a trial‖ in Ontario Rules of Civil Procedure
and ―no other compelling reason.....for trial‖ inCommercial Courts
Actcan be read mutatis mutandis. Consequently,Order XIIIA, CPCwould be attracted if the Court, while hearing such an application, can
make the necessary finding of fact, apply the law to the facts and the
same is a proportionate, more expeditious and less expensive means of
achieving a fair and just result.
92.   Accordingly, unlike ordinary suits, Courts need not hold trial in
commercial suits, even if there are disputed questions of fact as held
by the Canadian Supreme Court in Robert Hryniak (supra), in the
event, the Court comes to the conclusion that the defendant lacks a
real prospect of successfully defending the claim.
93.   The present suit is within limitation as the right to sue accrues
when there is a clear and/or unequivocal threat proceeding from the
defendant which invades or jeopardises the plaintiff‟s rights. In the
present case between 16th March, 2006 (i.e. date of execution of Deed
of Assignment) and 09th July 2018 (i.e. when the defendant no.1
submitted the Deed of Assignment to the interim resolution
professional), there was no assertion by defendant no.1 that the
plaintiff is not the owner of the SU-KAM marks in Class 9.
Consequently, the cause of action for filing the present suit arose for
the first time on 09th July, 2018.
94.     In the present case, the plaintiff is the exclusive registered
proprietor of the trademarks SU-KAM with respect to inverters which
fall within Class 9 in view of the registration certificates dated 22 nd
June, 2005 and 05th February, 2011 in favour of the plaintiff having
come into effect on 05th October, 1998 and 09th March, 2006
respectively and which were renewed on 05th October, 2008 and 09th
March, 2016 - when admittedly defendant no.1 was in control and
management of the plaintiff-company. Consequently, the defendant
no.1‟s contentions and submissions with regard to earlier adoption or
licensing by way of TMLA dated 07th July, 1995 or BT Agreement
dated 16th September, 1999 and/or subsequent transfer by way of Deed
of    Assignment      dated   16th   March,   2006   are   baseless     and
inconsequential.
95.     Further the Deed of Assignment is void for breach of fiduciary
duty. In fact, the said Deed had been executed by the defendant no.1
both as assignor and assignee and it purports to transfer the substratum
of plaintiff‟s business to its director ―defendant no.1‖ for nominal
consideration of Rs.5,000/- by an alleged recordal twelve years
later and that too after commencement of corporate insolvency
resolution process!
96.In view of judgment of a Coordinate Bench of this Court inRamaiah Life Style Cafe(supra) as the Deed of Assignment has not
been registered/recorded, the defendant no.1 cannot rely upon the
same.
97.   The said deed is also invalid on account of lack of quorum
undersection 287of the Company Act, 1956 as the votes of two out of
three directors namely, defendant no.1 and his wife would have to be
disregarded for being beneficiaries/interested directors by virtue ofsection 300of the Companies Act, 1956.InGlobe Motors Ltd.(supra), a Division Bench of this Court has held that a director cannot
be permitted to take advantage of his own breach of fiduciary duty to
divest the company of its substratal asset.
98.   The defendant no. 1 is also estopped from leading evidence of
his title to the SU-KAM marks in respect of Class 9, in view of the
representations [in particular the applications for registration of the
said marks dated 5th October, 1998, 9th March, 2006, as well as
applications for renewal of marks dated 5th October, 2008 and 9th
March, 2016, the Shares Subscription-cum-Shareholders Agreement
with Reliance India Power Fund dated 31st March, 2006, a suit for
infringement of SU-KAM marks filed in 2015 before this Court and a
Brand Valuation Report by Ernst & Young dated 03rd March, 2015 -
when defendant no. 1 was in management and control of the plaintiff-
company and held more than 80 per cent of its shares] to the world at
large that the plaintiff is the exclusive owner on which representations
the plaintiff relied by expanding its business and by spending money
on advertisements as well as promoting its business under the
impugned marks.
99.   Consequently, the admissions of defendant no.1 in documents
and pleadings prevent him from taking factual positions to the
contrary and leading evidence to the contrary.       Further from theCS(COMM) 1155/2018                                        Page 76 of 77pleadings and material on record, it is apparent that the defendants
have no real prospect of defending the allegations made by the
plaintiff and there is no compelling reason for trial.
100. Keeping in view the aforesaid findings and mandate of law,
present suit is decreed in accordance with prayers (a) to (f) of the
amended prayer clause, but without any order as to costs. All pending
applications also stand disposed of.
101.   Registry is directed to prepare the decree sheet accordingly.
MANMOHAN, J
OCTOBER 30, 2019
js/rn/KACS(COMM) 1155/2018                                          Page 77 of 77